The Airbus Pegasus FM Card Set PN 4084070 -90x has two non rechargeable batteries; diode isolated and connected in parallel, are used to supply hold-up power to the SRAM array during power loss. Series resistors are used to limit current draw and are scaled so that the two batteries discharge at different rates. Battery-1 discharges first, followed by battery-2. When power is valid, the +5VDC overrides the batteries to supply power to the SRAM array. Independent monitor circuits are used to detect the charge state of each battery. When the battery voltage falls below a threshold (nominal 3.28 VDC), the monitors notify the DCL of an invalid battery condition.   The Battery monitor trips at 3.07V, while the Battery voltage is between 4.5 and 5.5 volts in the power-on state, and between 3.0 and 5.5 volts in the power-off state. If only one battery is low, it is logged as a fault in BITE on every power up. There is no other cockpit effect. The FMG(E)C does not need to be pulled from the A/C after the first battery monitor trips. You could really only pull the FMG(E)C after the second battery monitor trips, because the battery circuit was designed to provide months of hold up, even after the second monitor trip. The second monitor trips at 3.07V, and the SRAM only needs 2.0V for data retention. Each battery is rated for 1.5A-hours. If the unit is un-powered all the time, nominally (at worse case current draw), the batteries should be valid for ~ 2 years (833 days = 3A-hours / 150uA * 24 hours).  Anyway we recommend that no battery with manufacture date code of two years or older be installed on a CCA. The installation date code is marked on the edge of the batteries (for example 9803 for March 1998).   The procedure for batteries replacement is described in detail on CMM 34-61-59 , page 6000 “REPAIRS”. On page 6003 you may find Lithium and Thionyl Chloride Batteries replacement Procedure.   As this is a Repair procedure can only be performed at the shop. You can use any shop with the capability to repair FMGC.  
